feature-comparison.md, before:

## Feature comparison

One of the key goals of highly comparative time-series analysis, is to allow unbiased methodological comparison between the vast literature of time-series analysis tools developed for different applications.
By representing features in terms of their outputs across a time-series dataset, the context of a given feature can be assessed by searching the database for features with similar behavior.
The search can be done using a diverse range of real and model-generated data, or using a more specific dataset if this is more appropriate for a given application (e.g., looking just at EEG signals).
Just like [similar time series to a target can be retrieved and visualized](sim_search.md), similar features to a given target feature can also be retrieved using `TS_SimSearch`.

### EXAMPLE: Determining the relationship between a new feature and existing features
We use the example of a new feature, `hot_feature`, and attempt to determine what existing features exhibit similar performance to it.

#### 1. Setting a data context
The first step is defining the set of features to compare to (here we use the default *hctsa* library), and the set of time-series data that behavior is going to be assessed on.
If you only ever analyze a particular type of data (e.g., rainfall), then perhaps you're more interested in which methods perform similarly on rainfall data.
If you have just developed a new algorithm for time-series analysis and want to see how it performs across a range of interdisciplinary time-series data, then you may want to use a diverse set of time series sampled from across science.

We have curated a diverse interdisciplinary set of 1000 time series.
Pre-computed results (using [v0.96 of *hctsa*](https://github.com/benfulcher/hctsa/releases/tag/v0.96) and Matlab 2017a) can be downloaded from [figshare](https://figshare.com/articles/1000_Empirical_Time_series/5436136), or features can be recomputed using our input file for the time-series dataset, also on [figshare](https://figshare.com/articles/1000_Empirical_Time_series/5436136) (to ensure implementation consistencies on your local compute architecture; i.e., using `TS_init('INP_Empirical1000.mat');` to initialize, followed by [compute commands involving `TS_compute`](running_computations.md)).
So now we have a context of the behavior of thousands of features on this diverse dataset with which to compare the behavior of our new feature, `hot-feature`.

#### 2. Computing the new features
So now we need to compute our new feature, `hot_feature1`, that was just published in PNAS, on the data.
To get the feature values, we could do this directly for isolated computations (using `TS_CalculateFeatureVector`), but in order to maintain the HCTSA structure, we instead produce a new `HCTSA.mat` file containing just `hot_feature` and the same time series.
After generating an input file, `INP_hot_master.txt` containing the function call, that takes in a time series, `x`:
```
MyHotFeature(x)     hot_master
```

The interesting field in the structure output produced by `MyHotFeature(x)` is `hotFeature1`, which needs to be specified in another input text file, `INP_hot_features.txt`, for example, as:
```
hot_master.hotFeature1     hot_feature1      hot,pnas
```
where we have given this feature two keywords: `hot` and `pnas`.

So now we are able to initiate a new *hctsa* calculation, specifying custom code calls (*master*) and features to extract from the code call (*features*), as:
```matlab
TS_init('INP_Empirical1000.mat','INP_hot_master.txt','INP_hot_features.txt',true,'HCTSA_hot.mat');
```
This generates a new file, `HCTSA_hot.mat`, containing information about the 1000 time series, and the three hot features, which can then be computed as:
```matlab
TS_compute(false,[],[],'missing','HCTSA_hot.mat');
```

#### 3. Combining
So now we have both a context of the behavior of a library of >7000 features on 1000 diverse time series, and we also have the behavior of our three hot new features.
It is time to combine them and look for inter-relationships!

```matlab
TS_combine('HCTSA_Empirical1000.mat','HCTSA_hot.mat',false,true,'HCTSA_merged.mat');
```

#### 4. Comparing

Now that we have all of the data in the same HCTSA file, we can compare the behavior of the new feature to the existing library of features.
This can be done manually by the researcher, or by using standard *hctsa* functions; the most relevant is [`TS_SimSearch`](sim_search.md).
We can find the ID assigned to our new `hot_feature` in the merged HCTSA file as:
```matlab
load('HCTSA_merged.mat','Operations');
Operations(strcmp({Operations.Name},'my_hot_feature'))
```
which tells us that the ID of `my_hot_feature` in `HCTSA_merged.mat` is 7750.
Then we can use [`TS_SimSearch`](sim_search.md) to explore the relationship of our hot new feature:

```matlab
TS_SimSearch(7750,'tsOrOps','ops','whatDataFile','HCTSA_merged.mat','whatPlots',{'scatter','matrix'})
```

We find that our feature is reproducing the behavior of the first zero of the autocorrelation function (the first match: `first_zero_ac`; see [Interpreting Features](interpreting-features.md) for more info on how to interpret matching features):

![](/assets/Screen Shot 2017-09-25 at 18.43.11.png)

The pairwise distance matrix (distances are $$1-|r|$$, for Pearson correlation coefficients, $$r$$) produced by `TS_SimSearch` provides another visualization of the context of this hot new feature (in this case there are so many highly correlated features, that the matrix doesn't reveal much subtle structure):

![](/assets/Screen Shot 2017-09-25 at 18.42.09.png)

#### 5. Interpreting
If your hot new feature shows distinctive performance, then it can be incorporated in the default set of features by adding the necessary master and feature definitions (i.e., the text in `INP_hot_master.txt` and the text in `INP_hot_features.txt`) to the library files (`INP_mops.txt` and `INP_ops.txt` in the **Database** directory of *hctsa*), as explained [here](inputfiles.md).
You might even consider sharing your new feature with the community by sending a [Pull Request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/) to the [hctsa github repository](https://github.com/benfulcher/hctsa).

Commit message:

Improvements to feature comparison docs

feature-comparison.md, after:

## Feature comparison

One of the key goals of highly comparative time-series analysis, is to allow unbiased methodological comparison between the vast literature of time-series analysis tools developed for different applications.
By representing features in terms of their outputs across a time-series dataset, the context of a given feature can be assessed by searching the database for features with similar behavior.
The search can be done using a diverse range of real and model-generated data, or using a more specific dataset if this is more appropriate for a given application (e.g., looking just at EEG signals).
Just like [similar time series to a target can be retrieved and visualized](sim_search.md), similar features to a given target feature can also be retrieved using `TS_SimSearch`.

This chapter will give instructions on how you can compare a new time-series analysis feature to our library of over 7000 time-series features using _hctsa_.
We assume that the reader has [installed _hctsa_](setup.md), which will be required to work with files and compute features.

### _EXAMPLE_: Determining the relationship between a new feature and existing features
We use the example of a new feature, `hot_feature`, and attempt to determine what existing features exhibit similar performance to it.

#### 1. Setting a data context
The first step is defining the set of features to compare to (here we use the default *hctsa* library), and the set of time-series data that behavior is going to be assessed on.
If you have just developed a new algorithm for time-series analysis and want to see how it performs across a range of interdisciplinary time-series data, then you may want to use a diverse set of time series sampled from across science.
This can be easily achieved using our set of 1000 time series, a random selection of 25 such time series are plotted below (only the first 250 samples are plotted to aid visualization):

![](/img/Empirical1000_25_250samples.png)

Pre-computed results (using [v0.96 of *hctsa*](https://github.com/benfulcher/hctsa/releases/tag/v0.96) and Matlab 2017a) can be downloaded from [figshare](https://figshare.com/articles/1000_Empirical_Time_series/5436136).
Alternatively,features can be recomputed using our input file for the time-series dataset, using the input file provided in the same [figshare](https://figshare.com/articles/1000_Empirical_Time_series/5436136) data repository.
This ensures implementation consistencies on your local compute architecture; i.e., using `TS_init('INP_Empirical1000.mat');` to initialize, followed by [compute commands involving `TS_compute`](running_computations.md)).

However, if you only ever analyze a particular type of data (e.g., rainfall), then perhaps you're more interested in which methods perform similarly on rainfall data.
For this case, you can produce your own data context for custom data using properly structured input files [as explained here](input_files.md).

So now we have a context of the behavior of thousands of features on this diverse dataset with which to compare the behavior of our new feature, `hot-feature`.

#### 2. Computing the new features
So now we need to compute our new feature, `hot_feature1`, that was just published in PNAS, on the data.
To get the feature values, we could do this directly for isolated computations (using `TS_CalculateFeatureVector`), but in order to maintain the HCTSA structure, we instead produce a new `HCTSA.mat` file containing just `hot_feature` and the same time series.
Note that, to compare to the `HCTSA_Empirical1000.mat` file hosted on [figshare](https://figshare.com/articles/1000_Empirical_Time_series/5436136), you should use version 0.96 of _hctsa_ to ensure that the exact same set of features are used (allowing valid comparison).
After generating an input file, `INP_hot_master.txt` containing the function call, that takes in a time series, `x`:
```
MyHotFeature(x)     hot_master
```

The interesting field in the structure output produced by `MyHotFeature(x)` is `hotFeature1`, which needs to be specified in another input text file, `INP_hot_features.txt`, for example, as:
```
hot_master.hotFeature1     hot_feature1      hot,pnas
```
where we have given this feature two keywords: `hot` and `pnas`.

So now we are able to initiate a new *hctsa* calculation, specifying custom code calls (*master*) and features to extract from the code call (*features*), as:
```matlab
TS_init('INP_Empirical1000.mat','INP_hot_master.txt','INP_hot_features.txt',true,'HCTSA_hot.mat');
```
This generates a new file, `HCTSA_hot.mat`, containing information about the 1000 time series, and the three hot features, which can then be computed as:
```matlab
TS_compute(false,[],[],'missing','HCTSA_hot.mat');
```

#### 3. Combining
So now we have both a context of the behavior of a library of >7000 features on 1000 diverse time series, and we also have the behavior of our three hot new features.
It is time to combine them and look for inter-relationships!

```matlab
TS_combine('HCTSA_Empirical1000.mat','HCTSA_hot.mat',false,true,'HCTSA_merged.mat');
```

#### 4. Comparing

Now that we have all of the data in the same HCTSA file, we can compare the behavior of the new feature to the existing library of features.
This can be done manually by the researcher, or by using standard *hctsa* functions; the most relevant is [`TS_SimSearch`](sim_search.md).
We can find the ID assigned to our new `hot_feature` in the merged HCTSA file as:
```matlab
load('HCTSA_merged.mat','Operations');
Operations(strcmp({Operations.Name},'my_hot_feature'))
```
which tells us that the ID of `my_hot_feature` in `HCTSA_merged.mat` is 7750.
Then we can use [`TS_SimSearch`](sim_search.md) to explore the relationship of our hot new feature:

```matlab
TS_SimSearch(7750,'tsOrOps','ops','whatDataFile','HCTSA_merged.mat','whatPlots',{'scatter','matrix'})
```

We find that our feature is reproducing the behavior of the first zero of the autocorrelation function (the first match: `first_zero_ac`; see [Interpreting Features](interpreting-features.md) for more info on how to interpret matching features):

![](/assets/Screen Shot 2017-09-25 at 18.43.11.png)

The pairwise distance matrix (distances are $$1-|r|$$, for Pearson correlation coefficients, $$r$$) produced by `TS_SimSearch` provides another visualization of the context of this hot new feature (in this case there are so many highly correlated features, that the matrix doesn't reveal much subtle structure):

![](/assets/Screen Shot 2017-09-25 at 18.42.09.png)

#### 5. Interpreting
In this case, the hot new feature wasn't so hot: it was highly correlated to many existing features (including the simple zero-crossing of the autocorrelation function, `first_zero_ac`), even across a highly diverse time-series dataset.
However, if you have more luck and come up with a hot new feature that shows distinctive (and useful) performance, then it can be incorporated in the default set of features used by _hctsa_ by adding the necessary master and feature definitions (i.e., the text in `INP_hot_master.txt` and the text in `INP_hot_features.txt`) to the library files (`INP_mops.txt` and `INP_ops.txt` in the **Database** directory of *hctsa*), as explained [here](inputfiles.md).
You might even celebrate your success by sharing your new feature with the community, by sending a [Pull Request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/) to the [hctsa github repository](https://github.com/benfulcher/hctsa)!! :satisfied:
